# Financer

## Overview
Financer is a project built for a fictional mid-size corporation to use as a financial reporting and data entry web application. This project is designed to replace unorganized Excel spreadsheets that are used for tracking revenue, expenses, and customer account information.

### Install
1. Clone the code repository for the project
2. Run the "Database Install Script.sql" script to setup the database tables and records
3. Update the "application.properties" file with the new database credentials and connection information

### Project Background
This project is a solution for the accounting department at Global Industrial Corporation (GIC) to streamline and consolidate financial entry and reporting. The current process for the department is storing data in Excel spreadsheets and compiling reports based on the spreadsheets. The Excel files are complex and can lead to many errors. The project solution will contain functionality for data entry and report creation.
The current process used by the accounting department at GIC utilizes Excel sheets in a manner like database tables. The data structure is modeled similarly to how the current process operates. Customer account information is stored in a single static Excel sheet that is then used to perform VLOOKUPs and input the customer data on reports and other tracking sheets. Revenue and expenses are stored in Excel sheets categorized by fiscal quarter and year. Each fiscal quarter has one sheet to compile all the revenue and expenses received and paid during that quarter. Reports that are generated and sent to other departments are created by using the revenue and expense sheets, along with VLOOKUPs from the customer sheet, to pivot and display the data as needed.
The project will segment these different components into database tables and create a simple user interface to enter data, create reports, and manage customer accounts. The application will reduce data loss, consolidate data for easier reporting, and reduce inconsistencies within reports.

Currently, only the financial department at GIC has access to the Excel sheets that are used for reporting and data management. To mirror this limited access, the application will only be accessible to users created by administrators. User accounts will be created for the existing financial department, and new user accounts will need to be requested by a system administrator if new team members join the financial department.

 ### High Level Design
The application consista of four distinct models and their corresponding controllers: reports, customers, users, and data. The report model representa individual instances of reports that have been generated by users. The data model is used in conjunction with the report model to compile the various data sources for exporting and viewing reports. The customer model represents individual customer accounts. The user model represents both administrative and regular user accounts.
